Update docs for logs agent mutli-line auto detection (#11832)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/logs/advanced_log_collection.md

| 2020-10-27 05:10:49.657  | `\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}\s\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}\.\d{3}` |
| {"date": "2018-01-02"    | `\{"date": "\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}`                |

### Automatic Multi-line aggregation

> With agent 7.32+ `auto_multi_line_detection` can be enabled which allows the agent to detect common multi-line patterns automatically.

Reviewer: let's mention that the feature is in beta

`auto_multi_line_detection` can be enabled globally in the `datadog.yaml`

```yaml
logs_config:
  auto_multi_line_detection: true
```

It can also be enabled or disabled (overriding the global config) per log configuration:

```yaml
logs:

>   auto_multi_line_detection: true

Reviewer: This is not a valid logs integration config.

Let's provide an example of a full (simple) logs integration config that's actually valid, and let's provide examples for Docker and Kubernetes as well (with different tabs, like the other sections on this page)

```

> Automatic mutli-line detection uses a list of common regular expressions to attempt to match logs. If the built in list is not sufficient, you can also add custom patterns in the `datadog.yaml

Reviewer 2: Should we add a link to the common regular expressions ?

Reviewer: (note: formatting problem here)

```suggestion
Automatic mutli-line detection uses a list of common regular expressions to attempt to match logs. If the built in list is not sufficient, you can also add custom patterns in the `datadog.yaml`
```

Also, can extra patterns be defined at the logs integration level as well?

Author: > Also, can extra patterns be defined at the logs integration level as well

No because it really doesn't make sense IMO. If you are going to make a log integration you may as well just add a normal multi line pattern. WDYT?

```yaml
logs_config:
  auto_multi_line_detection: true
  auto_multi_line_extra_patterns:
   - \d{4}\-(0?[1-9]|1[012])\-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01])
   - [A-Za-z_]+ \d+, \d+ \d+:\d+:\d+ (AM|PM)
```

With this feature enabled, when a new log file is opened the agent will try to detect a pattern. During this process the logs are sent as single lines. Once the detection threshold is met all future logs for that source will be aggregated with the detected pattern, or as single lines if no pattern is found. Detection takes at most 30 seconds or the first 500 logs (whichever comes first).

> **Note**: If your log files rotate periodically, it is recommended to only use this feature when the rotated file replaces the previously active file with the same name. The agent will reuse a previously detected pattern on the newly rotated file to avoid re-running detection. 

Reviewer: Users often don't have much control over this log rotation behavior (especially in containerized environments), so we should probably change this language to something like: "If your log files rotate periodically, and you can control the naming pattern of rotated log files, it is recommended to use this feature [...]". WDYT?

Author: I see. makes sense. will reword.

Author: I reworded it sort of in-between what you suggested and what was already there. I thought saying "it is recommended to use this feature" is a bit confusing considering this is beta, and I wanted to preserve the clarity that this works best when the rotated file keeps the same name. Because even if they don't have control over the naming scheme, if they can validate that it behaves this way they can still use the feature safely.

| 2020-10-27 05:10:49.657  | `\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}\s\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}\.\d{3}` |
| {"date": "2018-01-02"    | `\{"date": "\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}`                |

### Automatic Multi-line aggregation

> With agent 7.32+ `auto_multi_line_detection` can be enabled which allows the agent to detect [common multi-line patterns](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/logs/decoder/auto_multiline_handler.go#L195) automatically. This feature is currently in beta. 

Reviewer: nit: capitalize `agent`:

```suggestion
With Agent 7.32+ `auto_multi_line_detection` can be enabled which allows the Agent to detect [common multi-line patterns](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/logs/decoder/auto_multiline_handler.go#L195) automatically. This feature is currently in beta. 
```

(there may be other occurrences in your changes)

Author: Fixed all of them!

> With Agent 7.32+ `auto_multi_line_detection` can be enabled which allows the Agent to detect [common multi-line patterns](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/logs/decoder/auto_multiline_handler.go#L195) automatically. This feature is currently in beta. 

Reviewer 3: We use reference link syntax for our translation pipeline, please add this as a new number at the bottom. (It's okay to have numbers out of order, our link checker will fix it the next time any commit is made.)

Also, we usually have a specific colored/styled banner for beta notices, did you want to use one of those here?

Author: Thanks for the tip!
Yeah we can use the banner, do you have an example I can look at? I'm not really sure what I'm looking for.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, it's just a small bit of html, so you'd wrap it in a div with these classes:

```html
<div class="alert alert-warning">Text</div>
```
and it'll put whatever sentence you have in there in a yellow banner/div box. If they need to request access, this is also where you'd add the link to the form (using html instead of markdown inside the div tag) or instructions on how to do so (sometimes all you have to do is talk to your customer success manager). One example is on the watchdog page, we have this beta warning:

```html
## Root Cause Analysis for APM (beta)

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Watchdog Root Cause Analysis (RCA) is currently in beta. <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1gKdjVslrxMv_St7sIH7c47FJuf_hKvKAt_G9SXnE4Nw/edit?ts=5fbd5390&gxids=7628">Use this form</a> to request access.
</div>
```

Author: Thanks! I added the beta banner! Let me know if I should change it in any way :)

> `auto_multi_line_detection` can be enabled globally in the `datadog.yaml`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enable `auto_multi_line_detection` globally in the `datadog.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  auto_multi_line_detection: true
```

It can also be enabled or disabled (overriding the global config) per log configuration:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Configuration file" %}}

```yaml
logs:
  - type: file
    path: /my/test/file.log

>     service: cardpayment

Reviewer: nit: let's use a different service name, this one seems to refer to the credit card scrubbing logic :)

(same for the kubernetes example)

Author: changed to `testApp`

    source: java
    auto_multi_line_detection: true
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

In a Docker environment, use the label `com.datadoghq.ad.logs` on your container to specify the `log_processing_rules`, for example:

```yaml
 labels:
    com.datadoghq.ad.logs: >-
      [{
        "source": "java",
        "service": "testApp",
        "auto_multi_line_detection": true
      }]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata:
  name: testApp
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: testApp
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        ad.datadoghq.com/testApp.logs: >-
          [{
            "source": "java",
            "service": "testApp",
            "auto_multi_line_detection": true
          }]
      labels:
        app: testApp
      name: testApp
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: testApp
          image: testApp:latest
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Automatic mutli-line detection uses a list of common regular expressions to attempt to match logs. If the built in list is not sufficient, you can also add custom patterns in the `datadog.yaml`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Automatic mutli-line detection uses a list of common regular expressions to attempt to match logs. If the built-in list is not sufficient, you can also add custom patterns in the `datadog.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  auto_multi_line_detection: true
  auto_multi_line_extra_patterns:
   - \d{4}\-(0?[1-9]|1[012])\-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01])
   - [A-Za-z_]+ \d+, \d+ \d+:\d+:\d+ (AM|PM)
```

> With this feature enabled, when a new log file is opened the Agent will try to detect a pattern. During this process the logs are sent as single lines. Once the detection threshold is met all future logs for that source will be aggregated with the detected pattern, or as single lines if no pattern is found. Detection takes at most 30 seconds or the first 500 logs (whichever comes first).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With this feature enabled, when a new log file is opened the Agent tries to detect a pattern. During this process the logs are sent as single lines. Once the detection threshold is met all future logs for that source are aggregated with the detected pattern, or as single lines if no pattern is found. Detection takes at most 30 seconds or the first 500 logs (whichever comes first).
```

> **Note**: If you can control the naming pattern of the rotated log, ensure that the rotated file replaces the previously active file with the same name. The Agent will reuse a previously detected pattern on the newly rotated file to avoid re-running detection. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you can control the naming pattern of the rotated log, ensure that the rotated file replaces the previously active file with the same name. The Agent reuses a previously detected pattern on the newly rotated file to avoid re-running detection. 
```

```yaml
 labels:
    com.datadoghq.ad.logs: >-
      [{
        "source": "java",
        "service": "testApp",
        "auto_multi_line_detection": true
      }]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: ReplicaSet
metadata:
  name: testApp
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: testApp
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        ad.datadoghq.com/testApp.logs: >-
          [{
            "source": "java",
            "service": "testApp",
            "auto_multi_line_detection": true
          }]
      labels:
        app: testApp
      name: testApp
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: testApp
          image: testApp:latest
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Automatic mutli-line detection uses a list of common regular expressions to attempt to match logs. If the built-in list is not sufficient, you can also add custom patterns in the `datadog.yaml` file:

```yaml
logs_config:
  auto_multi_line_detection: true
  auto_multi_line_extra_patterns:
   - \d{4}\-(0?[1-9]|1[012])\-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01])
   - [A-Za-z_]+ \d+, \d+ \d+:\d+:\d+ (AM|PM)
```

> With this feature enabled, when a new log file is opened the Agent tries to detect a pattern. During this process the logs are sent as single lines. Once the detection threshold is met all future logs for that source are aggregated with the detected pattern, or as single lines if no pattern is found. Detection takes at most 30 seconds or the first 500 logs (whichever comes first).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With this feature enabled, when a new log file is opened the Agent tries to detect a pattern. During this process the logs are sent as single lines. After the detection threshold is met, all future logs for that source are aggregated with the detected pattern, or as single lines if no pattern is found. Detection takes at most 30 seconds or the first 500 logs (whichever comes first).
```
